Castor returns home to the Ashen Vale with Garland. He visits his great grand nephew on a regular basis and has taken a liking to his demanding new apprentice. But initially his goal is quite clear -- the population of Beaver Lake have become unwieldly and after decades spent safeguarding and building the community he feels obligated to get his found family back on the straight and narrow.

Except that doesn't work quite as he imagined. He is not without reputation amongst his furry people but he is finding them more and more difficult to work with. Despite warnings of their rambunctiousness being a nuisance to the surrounding human settlements, many still insist on rebelling against what is known to the tribe as the "old ways". His sticks of authority no longer seem as effective and his neighbors and friends seem swept up in the bold new activity the beavers have been exercising. He suspects some may know he was the bringer of ruin in the first place, but he also considers that his fellows are taking the opportunity to act out after generations of being tied to the same old Beaver Lake.

But all of that mirrors a change in Castor himself: After so long resigned to the life of a wild animal a renewed curiosity is sparked within him. He had become so accustomed to the life of the Beaver but he has regained the ability to change back to the form of his human days and then some. His short time adventuring with the party, busting a nut for the first time in what seems like an eternity, the curious draw of his relatively new power to change forms -- during this downtime and faced with the lack of success of stewarding the wayward beavers of Beaver lake, he finds himself more proactive about not only his powers but also what could have been lost from a life more normally lived.

In short Castor finds himself burdened with a mid-life crisis, despite spending far more of his life as a wetland creature than a man. He had resigned and grown comfortable as a seemingly unaging rodent but alone with his thoughts he is reminded of regrets, loves lost, and the wonder of people. Struck with wanderlust even in his years as a beaver he still viewed civilization from afar -- he though his pangs of longing had long been calloused over, but here they were renewed.

But why stop at just reclaiming his humanity? His curse now seems a potential gift -- what is it capable of? Destiny has clearly marked him as, maybe not great, but certainly unusual. 

Castor finds himself hungry again for the highs and lows of human life but also to understand the extent of his post-mitigation curse. (But at the same time there's no getting around it, this dude has spent human lifetimes as a dang beaver)